+++
title = "An Engineered E. coli that senses and degrades antibiotic residues"
date = "2018-05-31"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ["Zepeng Mu", "Zhuoning Zou", "Ye Yang", "et. al"]

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "*Synthetic and Systems Biology*."
publication_short = ""

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
abstract = "Due to the abuse of antibiotics, antibiotic residues can be detected in both natural environment and various industrial products, posing threat to the environment and human health. Here we describe the design and implementation of an engineered Escherichia coli capable of degrading tetracycline (Tc)-one of the commonly used antibiotics once on humans and now on poultry, cattle and fisheries. A Tc- degrading enzyme, TetX, from the obligate anaerobe Bacteroides fragilis was cloned and recombinantly expressed in E. coli and fully characterized, including its Km and kcat value. We quantitatively evaluated its activity both in vitro and in vivo by UVeVis spectrometer and LC-MS. Moreover, we used a tetracycline inducible amplification circuit including T7 RNA polymerase and its specific promoter PT7 to enhance the expression level of TetX, and studied the dose-response of TetX under different inducer concentrations. Since the deployment of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) outside laboratory brings about safety concerns, it is necessary to explore the possibility of integrating a kill-switch. Toxin-Antitoxin (TA) systems were used to construct a mutually dependent host-plasmid platform and biocontainment sys- tems in various academic and industrious situations. We selected nine TA systems from various bacteria strains and measured the toxicity of toxins (T) and the detoxifying activity of cognate antitoxins (A) to validate their potential to be used to build a kill-switch. These results prove the possibility of using engineered microorganisms to tackle antibiotic residues in environment efficiently and safely."
abstract_short = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
# projects = ["iGEM"]

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = "https://doi.org/10.1016/j.synbio.2018.05.001"
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = true

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""

+++

